.\" mpatrol
.\" A library for controlling and tracing dynamic memory allocations.
.\" Copyright (C) 1997-2000 Graeme S. Roy <graeme@epc.co.uk>
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston,
.\" MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" UNIX Manual Page
.\"
.\" $Id: mptrace.1,v 1.1 2000-12-13 23:22:29 graeme Exp $
.\"
.TH MPTRACE 1 "13 December 2000" "Release 1.3" "mpatrol library"
.SH NAME
mptrace \- displays tracing information produced by the mpatrol library
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmptrace\fP [\fIoptions\fP] [\fIfile\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmptrace\fP command is a tool designed to read a tracing output file
produced by the mpatrol library and display the tracing information that was
obtained.  The tracing information is a concise encoded trace of all of the
memory allocation events that occurred during a program's execution, and can be
decoded into tabular or graphical form, along with any relevant statistics that
can be calculated.
.PP
When the \fBTRACE\fP option is used with the mpatrol library, statistics for all
dynamic memory allocations and deallocations are written to a tracing output
file.  The name of this file can be changed with the \fBTRACEFILE\fP option.
.PP
Only allocations and deallocations are recorded, with each reallocation being
treated as a deallocation immediately followed by an allocation.  The intention
of tracing is to gather concise details about each memory allocation event
rather than complete information about some or all memory allocations.  As a
result, the mpatrol log files and profiling output files contain more detailed
information about individual memory allocations, whereas the tracing output
files contain a broader view of allocation behaviour throughout the entire
program.
.PP
The \fIfile\fP argument must be a valid mpatrol tracing output filename but if
\fIfile\fP is omitted then \fBmptrace\fP will use \fImpatrol.trace\fP as the
name of the tracing output file to use.  If \fIfile\fP is given as \fI\-\fP then
the standard input file stream will be used as the tracing output file.
.PP
The idea for graphically displaying a memory map of the heap comes from the
\fBxmem\fP tool supplied with the University of Toronto Computer Systems
Research Institute malloc library, written by Mark Moraes.  However, the
documentation for that tool remarks that it was written as a quick and dirty
hack.  The \fBmptrace\fP command is hopefully more stable and contains a lot
more functionality.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fP [\fB\-h\fP]
Displays a quick-reference option summary.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP [\fB\-V\fP]
Displays the version number of the \fBmptrace\fP command.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmpatrol\fP(1), \fBmprof\fP(1), \fBmleak\fP(1), \fBmpsym\fP(1),
\fBmpedit\fP(1), \fBlibmpatrol\fP(3).
.PP
The mpatrol manual and reference card.
.PP
http://www.cbmamiga.demon.co.uk/mpatrol/
.SH AUTHOR
Graeme S. Roy <graeme@epc.co.uk>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2000 Graeme S. Roy <graeme@epc.co.uk>
.PP
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.
.PP
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library General Public License for more
details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
